Add blog post: What is a context warehouse? (#18248)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/what-is-a-context-warehouse.md

Reviewer: One thing I'd suggest, rather than focusing on PostHog's context warehouse, focus on the concept of context warehouse overall. I think a lot can stay the same, it just might need a reorder and a tweak.

1. Intro
2. Why "data warehouse" stopped being the right word
3. Data warehouse vs. context warehouse
4. _Who this is for (and who it isn't, yet)_ (Maybe how to decide if a context warehouse is right for you?)
5. _How our context warehouse works at PostHog_
6. What's in the pipeline
7. Try it

Like our product engineer handbook isn't just about product engineers at PostHog:

https://posthog.com/product-engineer/what-is-a-product-engineer

This will make it more of a referenceable piece if the context warehouse term gets popular rather than a launch announcement right now.

Reviewer: Similar to this: https://posthog.com/product-engineers/what-is-distributed-tracing

Reviewer 2: >One thing I'd suggest, rather than focusing on PostHog's context warehouse, focus on the concept of context warehouse overall. 

+1

Reviewer 3: i added a few comments, and i also want @EDsCODE to give it a read, there are a few things where i think we changed up the architecture (tagged you there Eric), but in general it would be helpful to make sure everything written down is technically correct because i might've missed something

---
title: What is a context warehouse?
date: 2026-07-08
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - lizzie-epton
featuredImage: >-
    https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/PLACEHOLDER_REPLACE_BEFORE_MERGE.png
featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
    - Data warehouse
    - Infrastructure
    - PostHog news
seo:
    metaTitle: What is a context warehouse?
    metaDescription: "A context warehouse is a data warehouse wired directly into the tools and agents that act on it, so no data has to move from one tool to another to be useful."
---

> A context warehouse is a data warehouse wired directly into the tools and agents that act on it: analytics, experiments, feature flags, the SQL editor, and now AI agents; so no data has to move from one tool to another to be useful. Data warehouses store data, a context warehouse stores data, business context, and is natively integrated with everything else in your stack.

Reviewer 2: Straight in with the hard feedback from the start: I think we need to take a different tack here. 

The idea to me is that we make a context warehouse feel like a new, different thing. Something we conceptually owns and which we can push as the next stage of how data is stored. But here we're immediately drawing a direct link between CWH and DWH - which is the exact thing we want a divide on. 

How about...

```suggestion
A context warehouse is where you store all of your business context and product data in a way which is directly available to agents that want to reference and use that data as context. This may seem similar to a data warehouse, but there's a key difference...

- A data warehouse is a structured repository of data from multiple sources, optimized for analytics and business intelligence (BI)
- A context warehouse is a structured repository of data from multiple sources, optimized _for agents_

For PostHog, this difference is facilitated by a semantic data layer which enables the warehouse to service business and product data as context while still being natively integrated with everything else in your stack, including your agents. 
```

Bit flabby, but I think we need to draw a distinction very clearly here, rather than a connection.

Reviewer 3: i like Joe's version, bc the argument can be made that you can connect your agent with your regular dwh too, so why is this novel -- and it's bc we optimize for agents, not humans

Reviewer 3: coming back, the semantic layer isn't the groundbreaking thing here, it's that everything has a shared context, therefore the agent can also help building out that semantic layer with more precision, and also less data movement needed, bc we own so many of the tools. i'll let you figure out how to phase this from a marketing perspective but in and of itself, it's not the semantic layer that's changing the landscape

> This blog is the technical case for why it's a different category, not a rebrand of "data warehouse."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I think with the above in place or solved, we could cut this.

## Why "data warehouse" stopped being the right word

A data warehouse's job is simple: store structured data, let you query it. In a data warehouse, your data doesn't need to know what a "customer" is, what a feature flag is, or what an experiment variant is. Making that data mean something to your product requires separate tools, and the pipelines to wire them all together.

> That gap didn't matter much when a warehouse's main consumer was a data engineer whose job it is to connect and understand data. But it matters a lot now that the consumer is an agent trying to decide what to fix next. An agent working the [self-driving product](https://posthog.com/blog/self-driving-product) loop needs product signals (errors, funnel drops, slow sessions) and business context (revenue, plan tier, support history) in the same place it can query directly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That gap didn't matter much when a warehouse's main consumers were data engineers and data analysts whose job it is to connect and understand data. But it matters a lot now that the consumer is an agent trying to decide what to fix next. An agent working the [self-driving product](https://posthog.com/blog/self-driving-product) loop needs product signals (errors, funnel drops, slow sessions) and business context (revenue, plan tier, support history) in the same place it can query directly.
```

> A warehouse that only holds half of that picture is a warehouse for BI. A context warehouse holds both your external data and the context of how users interact with your product, natively.

Reviewer 2: I think this section is good, but I think we can emphasize the distinction in the final line. Make it clear that there are both conceptual changes (it's for agents, not BI) and technical changes to facilitate that (semantic layer, direct integration with agents). The difference isn't just the amount or type of data being stored. 

Happy to get pushback on this stuff as always - this is just what I've understood the difference to be - but I think we do probably need to push very hard on this as a clear difference, rather than a rebadging. Otherwise the dev reaction will be: 

<img width="640" height="360" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/479c2497-f4c7-4c49-82ec-534200358159" />

Reviewer 3: technically, you would be putting a semantic layer on top of your regualr dwh too 🫣  it's not a novel idea. and similarly to ours, most competitors are building agent-first/agent-supported semantic layers as of today

## Data warehouse vs. context warehouse

> The difference isn't the storage engine, it's what's allowed to touch the data without a pipeline standing in between.

Reviewer 3: THISSSS!!! this is the groundbreaking thing!!

|  | Data Warehouse | Context Warehouse |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| **What data is included?** | Whatever you pipe in, on tables you define | Product events (already there) + data you pipe in |

> | **What can query it without extra glue?** | Nothing, until you build a BI or reverse-ETL layer | Analytics, Experiments, Feature Flags, the SQL editor, PostHog AI, and MCP-connected agents |

Reviewer: Hmm, this is a strawman of data warehouses. I would expect them all to have at least basically querying built-in. Snowflake has an AI agent to write queries, it works in CLI too. They have MCP. I assume they have other things too.

https://www.snowflake.com/en/product/snowflake-coco/

Reviewer 3: exactly, most dwhs have some kind of query engine (Snowflake, Databricks, GCP), and their AI can also have access to those if you enable it

| **Who owns it?** | A dedicated data team | Product engineers, with or without a data team |
| **It's for you if you need…** | Scale and governance for structured data | The full context layer your product and your agents run on |

## How it works

<!-- TODO: insert diagram image (source doc: "How it works" overview diagram) before merging -->

### Get all your data in

> Your context warehouse starts with data that's already there. PostHog mirrors all your product event data to S3, partitioned by organization, as it's captured. Add to this: [Warehouse Sources](https://posthog.com/data-stack/sources). 200+ integrations that sync external systems including Stripe, HubSpot, Salesforce, Postgres, and more.

Reviewer: I think we should make a bigger deal of how easy this is. It is no-code, takes less than 2 minutes to set up. Full ETL pipelines require code, hosting, other platforms, debugging, etc.

### Store your data

> Under the hood, we store all your data in our [Managed Warehouse](https://posthog.com/data-stack/managed-warehouse). It's a single-tenant DuckDB instance per organization sitting on an S3 data lake that you have full access and ownership over your data through.

Reviewer 3: @EDsCODE is it still single-tenant? i thought we moved to multi-tenant but i might be wrong

The main ingredients:

> | Storage | S3, partitioned per organization. Product events land here automatically; Warehouse Sources syncs external systems into the same bucket. |

Reviewer 2: Lizzie three months ago, interviewing: "I'll be honest that I'm not very technical and don't really know much about data warehouses."

Lizzie now: _writing this section_

Me: 
<img width="240" height="200" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb9576eb-8ffc-4501-87b9-d2a1c7282795" />

> | Storage | S3, partitioned per organization. Product events land here automatically; Warehouse Sources syncs external systems into the same bucket. |

Reviewer 3: > Product events land here automatically

if an org sets it up. we won't trigger this automatically bc it would result in potentially _very_ high storage costs without explicit opt-in

| :---- | :---- |

> | Catalog | DuckLake, which separates storage from compute. Your data lives in S3 independent of whatever's querying it – today that's DuckDB, but the catalog doesn't lock the warehouse into any single engine staying right forever. |

Reviewer: I think this would be better as a list rather than a table.

I'm not sure it's possible for us to do a table without a header and I'm not sure adding a header (like Part, Details) would be that helpful?

Depends how it looks as a list.

<img width="1420" height="620" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/67ad64dc-33c1-459a-864d-1afdf8df0ef2" />

> | Compute | A fully single-tenant DuckDB instance per organization. Nobody's long-running query competes with anyone else's. |

Reviewer 3: @EDsCODE same here

| Isolation | Each DuckDB instance runs in its own Firecracker MicroVM, the same technology AWS uses for Lambda. Fast to boot, properly isolated, resource-contained. |

> | Lifecycle | A lifecycle service sleeps instances when idle and wakes them when a query arrives, in roughly 300ms. You're billed for use, not idle time. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Lifecycle | A lifecycle service sleeps instances when idle and wakes them when a query arrives, in roughly 300ms. You're billed when a worker is running, and they automatically shut down when idle. |
```

Reviewer 3: @benben do we have a number for how long a worker can be idle before we close it down? i want to specify it here (but no pressure if it's not finalized, we can update this with specifics later too)

Reviewer 4: 1 minute by default, can be overridden by query or default org settings

> | Lifecycle | A lifecycle service sleeps instances when idle and wakes them when a query arrives, in under roughly 300ms. You're billed for use, not idle time. |

Reviewer: either under or roughly, not both
```suggestion
| Lifecycle | A lifecycle service sleeps instances when idle and wakes them when a query arrives, in roughly 300ms. You're billed for use, not idle time. |
```

> | Orchestration | A Kubernetes operator manages the CRDs defining each organization's warehouse, with a proxy and queue layer routing queries and handling the handshake with the lifecycle service. |

Reviewer: what is CRD?

Reviewer 3: CRD = Custom Resource Definition -- maybe spell this out?

| Access | A Postgres wire protocol endpoint. Connect with psql, point a BI tool at it, or wire it into an agent over MCP – no proprietary connector to build against. |
| Local iteration | DuckHog, a DuckDB extension that lets local compute pull subsets of warehouse data into pandas, polars, or DuckDB itself, iterate quickly, and write results back. For an agent that wants fast local loops instead of round-tripping every query to the cluster, this is the better pattern. |

<!-- TODO: insert diagram image (source doc: DuckHog / local iteration diagram) before merging -->

### Agents read your data and drive development

> None of this matters to an agent unless the agent can actually query it. PostHog exposes the context warehouse over [MCP](https://posthog.com/mcp), [PostHog Web](https://posthog.com/self-driving), [Slack](https://posthog.com/slack), or [PostHog Desktop](https://posthog.com/code). An agent working the [self-driving product](https://posthog.com/blog/self-driving-product) loop reads product events and business context through the identical interface a human would use in the SQL editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
None of this matters to an agent unless the agent can actually query it. PostHog exposes the context warehouse over [MCP](/mcp), [PostHog Web](/self-driving), [Slack](/slack), or [PostHog Code](/code). An agent working the [self-driving product](/blog/self-driving-product) loop reads product events and business context through the identical interface a human would use in the SQL editor.
```

You don't need the domain and HTTP on internal links like this - and it's better not to have them

Reviewer 2: Also it's PostHog Code still for now, not Desktop

> That's what makes this a context warehouse rather than a data warehouse with an AI feature bolted on: the context an agent needs to make a good decision is already there, and it can use it to drive development autonomously or answer your questions.

Reviewer 2: > That's what makes this a context warehouse rather than a data warehouse with an AI feature bolted on.

Love it, deserves a mic drop

> ## Who this is for (and who it isn't, yet)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Who a context warehouse is for (and who it isn't, yet)
```

keywords keywords keywords

**It's a good fit if:**

> * You haven't built a data stack yet and don't want to spend months doing it before you get a queryable answer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You're AI-pilled and ship an increasing amount of work through agents and loops, or want to build self-driving software
* You haven't built a data stack yet and don't want to spend months doing it before you get a queryable answer.
```
mebbe?

* You're an engineer-led team tired of maintaining ETL pipelines that exist purely to keep two systems in sync.
* You're already using PostHog for analytics and want your business data sitting next to your product data instead of in a separate tool.

**It's not the right fit, yet, if:**

> * You need petabyte-scale with hundreds of concurrent analysts. One day we will get there, but if you need it now you probably have a data team primed to build a traditional stack.

Reviewer 2: I think we either cut this point, or else clarify that we're talking about PostHog's CWH specifically. If it's understood broadly then there are petabyte-scale options is all

* You run a data org with mature dbt pipelines and advanced modeling needs we don't match yet.
* You want a warehouse and nothing else. The integrated platform is the point, if that's not what you're looking for, a standalone warehouse might be a better fit.

## What's in the pipeline

> 

Reviewer 2: Could be good to throw in some links to our other data stack pages, waitlist, etc, to help deepen the SEO side

The context warehouse today is deliberately not a full data stack: land your events and your business data in one place, let the tools you already use in PostHog query it directly to make better decisions about the direction of your product. Here's what we're already building toward:

| Direction | What it means |
| :---- | :---- |

> | Deeper Modeling | Closing the gap with dbt-style transformation maturity for teams with more advanced modeling needs. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Deeper modeling | Closing the gap with dbt-style transformation maturity for teams with more advanced modeling needs. |
```

| More sources | Expanding Warehouse Sources coverage so fewer teams need a custom sync to get their systems in. |
| More of the loop exposed to agents | As the self-driving product loop matures, more of what an agent can see in the context warehouse becomes something it can act on directly, not just read. |

## Try it yourself

> Join the waitlist for the managed warehouse beta, or just connect your first source and get a head start, no need to wait around for us. Once you're in, the warehouse lives at app.posthog.com, same as everything else: sync a source through Warehouse Sources, poke at it in the SQL editor, or hand an agent the keys and see what it does with it.

Reviewer 2: def need a waitlist link here

## FAQ

**Is a context warehouse the same as a data lakehouse?**

No. A lakehouse combines warehouse and data-lake storage patterns. A context warehouse adds the ability for your product tools and agents to query that storage natively, without a separate BI or reverse-ETL layer.

**Can I use a context warehouse if I already have a data warehouse?**

> Yes. Sync your data into PostHog via Warehouse Sources, and that data becomes queryable alongside your product events in analytics, experiments, and agents. No migration required.

Reviewer 2: it's just warehouses all the way down, innit

---
title: What is a context warehouse?

> date: 2026-07-08

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2026-07-21
```

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - lizzie-epton
featuredImage: >-
    https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Context_warehouse_blog_header_b21c5b6f1c.png
featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
    - Data warehouse
    - Infrastructure
    - PostHog news
seo:
    metaTitle: What is a context warehouse?
    metaDescription: "A context warehouse is a data warehouse wired directly into the tools and agents that act on it, so no data has to move from one tool to another to be useful."
---

> A data warehouses are optimized for analytics, business intelligence (BI), and data engineers. What would they look like if they optimized for AI agents instead?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data warehouses are optimized for analytics, business intelligence (BI), and data engineers. What would they look like if they optimized for AI agents instead?
```

* You haven't built a data stack yet, and want product data and business context queryable by an agent from day one instead of assembling a data engineer's worth of tooling first.
* You're an engineer-led team tired of maintaining ETL pipelines whose only job is keeping two systems in sync so a human (or now, an agent) can ask a question that spans both.

**It's not the right fit, yet, if:**

* You run a data org with mature dbt pipelines and advanced modeling needs we don't match yet.
* You want a warehouse and nothing else. The integrated platform is the point, if that's not what you're looking for, a standalone warehouse might be a better fit.

## How our context warehouse works at PostHog

![Context warehouse diagram](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/Context_Warehouse_Blog_flow_chart_2_bf07f8cdee.png)

### Get all your data in

Your context warehouse starts with data that's already there. Once enabled, PostHog mirrors your product event data to S3, partitioned by organization, as it's captured with no pipeline to build.

> Everything else comes in through [Warehouse Sources](/data-stack/sources): 200+ integrations that sync external systems including Stripe, HubSpot, Salesforce, Postgres, and more. Connecting each source is no-code and takes under two minutes, or even more hands-off with the PostHog Wizard. Compare that to an ETL pipeline: writing and maintaining extraction jobs, hosting them somewhere, wiring up a destination, and debugging it every time a schema changes upstream. Warehouse Sources allows you to skip all of that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything else comes in through [Warehouse Sources](/data-stack/sources): 200+ integrations that sync external systems including Stripe, HubSpot, Salesforce, Postgres, and more. Connecting each source is no-code and takes under two minutes, or even more hands-off with the PostHog Wizard. 

Compare that to an ETL pipeline: writing and maintaining extraction jobs, hosting them somewhere, wiring up a destination, and debugging it every time a schema changes upstream. Warehouse Sources allows you to skip all of that.
```

### Store your data

> Under the hood, we store all your data in our [Managed Warehouse](/data-stack/managed-warehouse). It's a DuckDB instance per organization sitting on an S3 data lake that you have full access and ownership over your data through.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the hood, we store all your data in our [rebuilt Managed Warehouse](/blog/why-we-rebuilt-our-data-warehouse). It's a DuckDB instance per organization sitting on an S3 data lake that you have full access and ownership over your data through.
```

The main ingredients:

* **Storage:** S3, partitioned per organization. Once enabled, product events land here automatically; Warehouse Sources syncs external systems into the same bucket.
* **Compute & isolation:** A DuckDB instance per organization, running in its own Firecracker MicroVM (the same technology AWS uses for Lambda), so no query competes with anyone else's.
* **Lifecycle:** A lifecycle service sleeps instances when idle and wakes them when a query arrives, in roughly 300ms. You're billed when a worker is running, and they automatically shut down when idle after 60s.
* **Access:** A Postgres wire protocol endpoint. Connect with psql, point a BI tool at it, or wire it into an agent over MCP – no proprietary connector to build against.
* **Local iteration:** DuckHog, a DuckDB extension that lets local compute pull subsets of warehouse data into pandas, polars, or DuckDB itself, iterate quickly, and write results back. For an agent that wants fast local loops instead of round-tripping every query to the cluster, this is the better pattern.

> [PostHog Managed Warehouse Architecture diagram](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/Context_Warehouse_Blog_flow_chart_3_cc7ffcacb3.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![PostHog Managed Warehouse Architecture diagram](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/Context_Warehouse_Blog_flow_chart_3_cc7ffcacb3.png)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Agents read your data and drive development

None of this matters to an agent unless the agent can actually query it. PostHog exposes the context warehouse over [MCP](/mcp), [PostHog Web](/self-driving), [Slack](/slack), or [PostHog Code](/code). An agent working the [self-driving product](/blog/self-driving-product) loop reads product events and business context through the identical interface a human would use in the SQL editor.

That's what makes this a context warehouse rather than a data warehouse with an AI feature bolted on: the context an agent needs to make a good decision is already there, and it can use it to drive development autonomously or answer your questions.

## What's in the pipeline

The context warehouse today is deliberately not a full data stack: land your events and your business data in one place, let the tools you already use in PostHog query it directly to make better decisions about the direction of your product. Here's what we're already building toward:

| Direction | What it means |
| :---- | :---- |

> | Making our Managed Warehouse Generally Available | Right now, we're in a closed beta that will be open very soon, you can [get on the waitlist](/data-stack/managed-warehouse) and be the first to hear about it here. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Making our Managed Warehouse generally available | Right now, we're in a closed beta that will be open very soon, you can [get on the waitlist](/data-stack/managed-warehouse) and be the first to hear about it. |
```

| Deeper modeling | Closing the gap with dbt-style transformation maturity for teams with more advanced modeling needs. |
| More sources | Expanding [Warehouse Sources](/data-stack/sources) coverage so fewer teams need a custom sync to get their systems in. |
| More of the loop exposed to agents | As the [self-driving product](/blog/self-driving-product) loop matures, more of what an agent can see in the context warehouse becomes something it can act on directly, not just read. |

## Try it yourself

> [Join the waitlist](/data-stack/managed-warehouse) for the managed warehouse beta, or just connect your first source and get a head start, no need to wait around for us. Once you're in, the warehouse lives at app.posthog.com, same as everything else: sync a source through Warehouse Sources, poke at it in the SQL editor, or hand an agent the keys and see what it does with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Join the waitlist](/data-stack/managed-warehouse) for the managed warehouse beta, or just [connect your first source](/docs/data-warehouse/start-here) and get a head start, no need to wait around for us. Once you're in, the warehouse lives inside PostHog, same as everything else: sync a source through Warehouse Sources, poke at it in the SQL editor, or hand an agent the keys and see what it does with it.
```

    - Infrastructure
    - PostHog news
seo:
    metaTitle: What is a context warehouse?
    metaDescription: "A context warehouse is a data warehouse wired directly into the tools and agents that act on it, so no data has to move from one tool to another to be useful."
---

A context warehouse is where you store all of your business context and product data so that it is directly available to agents that want to reference and use that data as context. This may seem similar to a data warehouse, but here's the key difference:

- A data warehouse is a structured repository of data from multiple sources, optimized for analytics and business intelligence (BI)
- A context warehouse is a structured repository of data from multiple sources, optimized _for agents_

For PostHog, this isn't down to a smarter semantic layer bolted on top, plenty of data warehouses have one of those. It's that product data, business context, and your agents already live in the same place, so there's no data movement required to make it useful. That shared context is what lets your agents help build and refine the semantic layer because they're already working from everything else in your stack.

> 

Reviewer: Going straight into the definition is a bit dry as an intro. Could we try having a bit more fun with it?

I copied this sentence but I'm not sure it makes sense now:

> The shared context lets your agents build and refine the semantic layer because they're already working from everything else in your stack.

Maybe the transition into the main article is a bit abrupt too. 

```suggestion
Data warehouses optimized for analytics, business intelligence (BI), and data engineers. What would they look like if they optimized for AI agents instead?

They'd look like **context warehouses**: a store for all of your business and product data so it is directly available to agents that want to reference and use it. 

This isn't just letting an agent connect to your warehouse or creating a better, bolted-on semantic layer. Plenty of data warehouses do this.

A context warehouse is different because all your product data, business context, and agents live in the same place. There's no data movement required to use them. The shared context lets your agents build and refine the semantic layer because they're already working from everything else in your stack.

Here's how we're thinking about the differences between a data and context warehouse and how we're building the latter at PostHog. 

```

That gap didn't matter much when a warehouse's main consumers were data engineers and data analysts whose job it is to connect and understand data. But it matters a lot now that the consumer is an agent trying to decide what to fix next. An agent working the [self-driving product](/blog/self-driving-product) loop needs product signals (errors, funnel drops, slow sessions) and business context (revenue, plan tier, support history) in the same place it can query directly.

A warehouse that only holds half of that picture is a warehouse for BI; built for someone running a scheduled report, not something deciding what to fix next. A context warehouse holds both your external data and the context of how users interact with your product, natively: in the same place, under the same query interface, that every other tool in your stack already uses. That's not just more data in the same box, it's a different warehouse for a different consumer: AI agents.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe I am butchering this section but it's not so clear as it stands and sort of repeats itself in the final paragraph (it doesn't say anything new) and I'm sensing a little "it's not X, it's Y" AI writing. 

Something else that's unclear here is that you're sort of saying that a data warehouse is missing some of the context, which probably isn't true? You can just wire it in, but it takes more work. 

```suggestion
A data warehouse's job is simple: store structured data and let you query it. It's job is not knowing what a "customer," feature flag, or experiment variant is. Data engineers and analysts do the meaning making using separate tools and pipelines to wire together data and make it all make sense.

But what if those people don't exist? As agents increasing become the consumer of this data, they need both the access and the tools to make sense of this data themselves. It becomes their job to know the meaning of the data so they can decide what to fix next. An agent working the [self-driving product](/blog/self-driving-product) loop needs product signals (errors, funnel drops, slow sessions) and business context (revenue, plan tier, support history) in the same place it can query directly.

The data warehouse is simply missing some of the product context agents need to do this successfully. They assume a person will be there to say why something is important, how it connects to the product experience, or why it will impact the business. A context warehouse is set up to enable agents to do this analysis. 
```

Reviewer: It might be helpful to have a bit more of what we mean by "product signals" and "business context" here. Why couldn't a data warehouse have them? Like what do you get from having a context warehouse that you wouldn't get from Snowflake with PostHog + Stripe connected?

## Data warehouse vs. context warehouse

The difference isn't the storage engine, it's what's allowed to touch the data without a pipeline standing in between.

|  | Data Warehouse | Context Warehouse |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |

> | **What data is included?** | Whatever you pipe in, on tables you define | Product events (already there) + data you pipe in |

Reviewer: Couldn't you just pipe in your product events? We have a batch exports product to do this no?

> | **What can query it without extra glue?** | Your data warehouse's query engine and AI agent | Analytics, Experiments, Feature Flags, the SQL editor, PostHog AI, and MCP-connected agents |

Reviewer: This feels like more of a PostHog-specific point than a context warehouse one. If another company made a context warehouse, they maybe wouldn't have analytics, experiments, etc.?

| **Who owns it?** | A dedicated data team | Product engineers, with or without a data team |
| **It's for you if you need…** | Scale and governance for structured data | The full context layer your product and your agents run on |

## Who a context warehouse is for (and who it isn't, yet)

**It's a good fit if:**

> * You're AI-pilled and ship an increasing amount of work through agents and loops, or want to build self-driving software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You're AI-pilled and ship an increasing amount of work through agents and loops, or you want to make your product self-driving.
```

* You haven't built a data stack yet and don't want to spend months doing it before you get a queryable answer.

> * You're an engineer-led team tired of maintaining ETL pipelines that exist purely to keep two systems in sync.

Reviewer: Neither of these feel like specific to a context warehouse, they more seem like just an easy-to-use data warehouse? But maybe that is the same.

> * You're already using PostHog for analytics and want your business data sitting next to your product data instead of in a separate tool.

Reviewer: This another PostHog point that maybe should be saved for later.

**It's not the right fit, yet, if:**

* You run a data org with mature dbt pipelines and advanced modeling needs we don't match yet.
* You want a warehouse and nothing else. The integrated platform is the point, if that's not what you're looking for, a standalone warehouse might be a better fit.

## How our context warehouse works at PostHog

> ![Context warehouse diagram](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Context_Warehouse_Blog_flow_chart_2_9005f9beac.png)

Reviewer: I could be wrong, but it doesn't seem like an MCP interface is the only surface the connects a context warehouse to self-driving

* **Catalog:** DuckLake, which separates storage from compute. Your data lives in S3 independent of whatever's querying it – today that's DuckDB, but the catalog doesn't lock the warehouse into any single engine staying right forever.
* **Compute:** A full DuckDB instance per organization. Nobody's long-running query competes with anyone else's.
* **Isolation:** Each DuckDB instance runs in its own Firecracker MicroVM, the same technology AWS uses for Lambda. Fast to boot, properly isolated, resource-contained.
* **Lifecycle:** A lifecycle service sleeps instances when idle and wakes them when a query arrives, in roughly 300ms. You're billed when a worker is running, and they automatically shut down when idle after 60s.
* **Orchestration:** A Kubernetes operator manages the Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) defining each organization's warehouse, with a proxy and queue layer routing queries and handling the handshake with the lifecycle service.
* **Access:** A Postgres wire protocol endpoint. Connect with psql, point a BI tool at it, or wire it into an agent over MCP – no proprietary connector to build against.

> * **Local iteration:** DuckHog, a DuckDB extension that lets local compute pull subsets of warehouse data into pandas, polars, or DuckDB itself, iterate quickly, and write results back. For an agent that wants fast local loops instead of round-tripping every query to the cluster, this is the better pattern.

Reviewer: I'm thinking this many bullets is probably overkill, this post up until this point not so much a technical details of our warehouse but an overview of the context warehouse. Could we cut this down to 5 max?
